# Optical Follow-Up of High-Energy Neutrinos

## Abstract
This thesis is concerned with the origin of high-energy neutrinos detected by the IceCube Observatory at the South Pole since a decade. It summarizes the young field of neutrino astronomy and details the systematic high-energy neutrino follow-up program we have been conducting with the Zwicky Transient Facility (ZTF), an optical survey telescope, for the past four years.

One major finding is the establishment of the astrophysical transient *AT2019fdr* as counterpart to a high-energy neutrino. This transient is studied in detail, aided by the collection and reduction of data across the electromagnetic spectrum. Based on these observations and modeling of the light curve I conclude that this event constitutes a Tidal Disruption Event (TDE), albeit an unusual one. The chance coincidence of such an association is $0.034\,\%$ when including another previous association. Furthermore, I discuss the infrared dust echo from this transient in the context of two further possible associations of candidate TDEs with high-energy neutrinos, which also display such a dust echo.

This study is appended by the creation of the ZTF nuclear sample, the first systematic sample of transient events found near the cores of their host galaxies within the ZTF survey. One goal of this sample is to enlarge the number of TDEs found so far. This is achieved by the development of a machine-learning based photometric typing algorithm. That classifier is trained on a survey of bright ZTF transients, including augmentation of that sample to account for the fainter nature of the nuclear sample. When applying the classifier to the nuclear sample, an additional 27 new candidate TDEs are found. Furthermore, the identification of candidate TDEs via their infrared dust-echo signal is also successful, resulting in 16 previously unpublished TDE candidates.